# 2025-12-24

First devlog. Thought it might be nice to leave a paper trail.

### What have I done so far?

- basic swaying cube to represent a walk animation in blender, and a bobbing movement for idle. Imported it into unreal and learned about blend spaces.
- Added a Player Controller for WASD movement.
- all logic was happening in the one character blueprint. Proceeded to spend two days refactoring everything so that logic was correctly spread out. Plug-in Actor Controllers for various functions (move, look).

All this done with heavy help from ChatGPT.

### How it's been going

It's a fun stage going from absolutely zero knowledge to learning about Unreal specifics. I've given up on actually writing c++ code because the pipeline on mac is awful. Maybe in the future for specific, cpu-heavy frame-reliant code, but BluePrints seem plenty powerful enough.

### New rotation actor

But it's very much been with chatgpt holding my hand. So today I decided to figure out how to make the character face the cursor, rather than its direction of travel, without resorting to chatgpt. Classic google searches and the knowledge I've gained from the previous stages were enough. I was able to get it working. Possibly could be cleaned up, but a good trial of my ability to go it alone.

### Up next:

Now that I've decoupled rotation from movement, I think I can do the following (again without chatgpt):

- blend animations for moving forward, backward and strafing.
- override max speed as a function of these relative movements, as well as implementing a sprint button, which overrides max speed as well as breaking rotation lock.
