# 2025-12-27

This was a long and difficult day.

### making rigid skinned characters for unreal

Unreal will not accept characters whose meshes have just been parented to bones. You need to actually skin them.

To rigidly parent the meshes you first select the meshes and armature, click ctrl p and select "something something without weights". So now they're skinned but weighted to nothing.

Then for each mesh, I go to edit mode, press a to select all vertices, select the bone I want, then "assign"

Once that is done, I can import into unreal.

### blend spaces for movement

Not sure if sprint should be an entirely different state, or part of the movement blendspace. I suspect it's fine as part of the BS, with movement and look actors handling all the state logic. My rule of thumb is if it's an exclusive move set, make it one blend space. It strikes me that backpeddle, walk, sprint is all part of the same thing. ChatGPT is what told me this, but today tried to convince me otherwise...

### chatGPT

Chat GPT has been invaluable, but today was a good case of bumping into the limits. Countless halucinations, which it regularly put down to version mismatches in blender and unreal, but I can't know for sure. It still helped a great deal, but in certain areas it's best to be avoided.

### what I have

A little pyramid man who blends between backpeddle, walk, strafe and sprint, and he's cute as a button.

### next?

I need to update the move controller to limit speed to walking speed unless sprint is pressed, as well as maybe slower strafe and backpeddle speeds. And if sprint is set then change look to face velocity rather than target lock.

Also, soon, I want to look into proper foot planting and gait control within unreal
