# 2026-01-11

### Movement now improved

I've added a movement director (similar to look director) that can switch between different MovementActors. For example, climbing a ladder, getting grabbed by an enemy; these could be handled by just switching to a different MovementActor.

### Clamping based on strafe / backpeddling.

Now the GetMaxSpeed() on my standard movementHandler gets the dot product of the character's movement compared to where its facing, and modifies max speed based on new variables added to the movement actor (Strafe modifier, back modifier and sprint modifier).

Also added a sprint button (left shift) that enables sprinting (duh)

### A new look component.

Now, the normal look actor faces the cursor. But if isSprinting is true, the look director shifts to "face where you're going". The clamping means that the character will only start sprinting once they've faced the right direction.

## A big animation problem

At the moment, the Animation blueprint uses GetMaxSpeed to derive the blendspace for the different animations. This works great for strafe and backpeddle, but its crap for sprinting.

On top of that, we have foot sliding because I've made no attempt to animate the cycles for specific move speeds.

### What to do?

Several things:

    - author animations for specific speeds (use a treadmill rig)
    - add animation meta data to those animations in unreal (requires new c++ classes)
    - Create separate blendspaces for each gait (walk, run)
    - plug in real velocity to playback rate for each (anim meta data helps calculate this). So a slow walk, or a fast walk, feet remain planted
    - blend between idle, walk, run with the animation blue print (not a single mega blendspace)
